---
title: "The database and documentation layer"
---

Given the heterogeneity in the sources of data input, the backend will
need to be composed of multiple components: raw data files as plain
text, cleaning and processing programming scripts, a formal database
structure (e.g. SQL), a VC system to track changes to the raw data and
processing scripts, a data version numbering system, a changelog
describing the changes, and a data dictionary linked to the variables
contained in the database. Versioning of the raw data and scripts is
done for recordkeeping, auditing, and transparency, in addition to
allowing comparison of data used between past and current projects that
use the data.

A major challenge to building the backend is in the heterogeneity of the
data input. The key is to establish and enforce a standardized Common
Data Model (CDM) for all incoming data at the point of entry. For the
framework, the exact contents of the database aren't important, since as
long as the contents follow the CDM it will be programmatically merged
into the final formal database. This is necessary as the database
contents depend heavily on the research topic and aims of the study that
will use this framework.

The backend documentation is either largely generated automatically or
manually written. For instance, the list of projects and findings would
be generated by the submitted projects and input from User 2
(researchers) while the changelog would be updated either by automated
additions or, optionally, manually from User 4. The data dictionary
would be stored as a JSON file with the documentation text itself as
Markdown text. This data dictionary would be publicly accessible and
could be updated by anyone (with approval from User 4), potentially
through "Merge Request" mechanisms. This mechanism involves
automatically linking any addition or correction back to the main
documentation and requesting it be merged into it.

TODO: File tree structure design showing where data will be saved and
how it will look like on the computer.

# Backend technology

An open source database is the backbone of our project. It will support
the access, security features, and data storage.

Below we have first detailed the specifications that we are looking for
in a backend database, and then a discussion of a selection of specific
systems that may meet our requirements.

# Database specifications

This document will change and grow as we develop Seedcase database. This
section lists some specifications we need and that we already know it
must be able to handle.

## Must have functionality

There are some standard features of a database which should be present
no matter which system we end up using. A database backend should be
able to handle the data stored, the users, security, and be able to
monitor and back up data.

### Data handling

There are some important aspects of data handling that we will need the
database to do. It will need to be able to accept data written into the
system, be able to store the data, and able to output the data when
needed. It also needs to ensure that data integrity is preserved and
that concurrency issues doesn't arise, in other words it needs to comply
with the ACID properties (Atomicity, Consistency, Isolation, and
Durability).

We also need a system that can handle potentially large amounts of data,
not only on many individuals (row based), but also many variables for
each individual record (column based). The speed with which it is able
to retrieve data will also play a role in our choice of backend.

### User handling

We need a system that is capable of handling users. We will need a
system that can take the access policies we design and implement them,
likely through a system of roles and groups which the individual user
can be assigned to. We are currently working with a model where we
expect most instances of Seedcase to be used by a single user, but it
will need to be able to scale to allow for multiple users with very
different roles.

### Security

The security of Seedcase is discussed in [a different document](link).
We will need to be able to comply with different regulations (like
GDPR), it is therefore likely that it will be a combination of backend
and frontend security working together to keep data safe.

### Monitoring

The backend of Seedcase should contain measures that will ensure that if
data is changed or lost it is possible to restore it. There are a couple
of ways to achieve this, either monitoring/logging of changes to the
data, or by running backups of all or parts of the data on a regular
basis. These two approaches can of course work in tandem, where
important data tables and structures have changes logged in audit
tables, combined with frequent backups saved to a separate part of the
system.
