README.md, before:

# Seedcase project

-   Grant proposal: [![Grant proposal
    DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.6511112.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6511112)

In many fields of science, managing and structuring data in FAIR,
transparent, and discoverable ways can be a major barrier to fully using
data collected from a study. This is especially true of larger studies,
as experienced in many human health fields. This is largely a software
and training issue, complicated by the fact that funding is often
restricted for this type of work as it is often undervalued. For this
project, we aim to build software tools and training documentation that
make it easier to manage and work with data. More details are found on
the [landing page](https://seedcase-project.org) of the website.

## Contributing

Looking to contribute? Check out our [contributing
guidelines](https://community.seedcase-project.org). Please note that the Seedcase project is
released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](https://contributor-covenant.org/version/2/1/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.html).
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its
[terms](https://github.com/seedcase-project/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).

Commit message:

refactor: :recycle: improve and update README (#348)
# Description

Some small fixes to the README page, mainly to get it updated.

Closes #210

This PR needs a quick review.

## Checklist

- [x] Formatted Markdown
- [x] Ran `just run-all`

---------

Co-authored-by: martonvago <57952344+martonvago@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:

# Seedcase Project: Developing a framework for effective infrastructures for research data

-   Grant proposal: [![Grant proposal
    DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.6511112.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.6511112)

In many fields of science, managing and structuring data in FAIR,
transparent, and discoverable ways can be a major barrier to fully using
data collected from a study. This is especially true of larger studies,
as experienced in many human health fields. This is largely a software
and training issue, complicated by the fact that funding is often
restricted for this type of work as it is often undervalued. For this
project, we aim to build software tools that make it easier to manage
and work with data. See our [website](https://seedcase-project.org) for
more information.

## Contributing

Looking to contribute? Check out our [contributing
guidelines](https://guidebook.seedcase-project.org). Please note that
the Seedcase Project is released with a [Contributor Code of
Conduct](https://github.com/seedcase-project/.github/blob/main/CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md).
By contributing to this project, you agree to abide by its terms.
