learn/informal_learning/phyton-to-postgres/part2-setup.md, before:

## Setting up the environment

Because we are already using Docker containers with Seedcase, it made sense to use that as the starting point for my database.  One reason being, that you create additional problems for yourself if you run both a Postgres database locally and one in Docker, as they seem to compete for the local host domain.  I am aware that this should be solvable by referencing directly to the different set-ups when using for instance pgAdmin, but I haven't been able to figure that bit out (yet).

Everything described below is done on a Mac running Ventura (13.5).

### Docker setup

Installing the Docker Desktop is straight forward, setting up the containers less so.  When starting the desktop app you have a few options on the left side, Containers, Images, and Volumens.  They are all a bit of a mystery, and quite empty to start with.  There is nothing intuitive telling me how to create a container and load it with for instance postgres, and I keep ending up using a bit of code in the terminal to set up a new container, which populates the container section as well as the image section of the Docker Desktop.

The code I modify is the following:

``` bash
docker run --name [Container Name] -p 5422:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=[Password] -d postgres:latest 
```

Breaking down the code can be useful (also for myself a couple of months from now), so here goes.

`docker run` tells the terminal that this is something it needs to do in the docker environment, once Docker is installed these commands will work.

`--name` names the container, you can use any name you want, but it should make sense and there may be protected words you don't want to use.  If you have worked with databases before you probably know which words to stay away from.  In this instance I named it OpenAIdb.

`-p` or `--publish` tells the computer which ports to use when communicating with the database.  The first set of digits (here 5422) is the port your computer will send requests to, and the second set is the one that postgres listens on inside the container.  The second set should always be 5432 when working with postgres.  The reason you specify the port as different on localhost, is so that you can easily run more than one postgres container in Docker.  It is important to note, that there is a `-P` command as well, which publishes all exposed ports to random ports, so stick to the lower p.

`-e` or `--env` is where you set any environment variables.  In this case we set a password for the root user by setting the variable `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`.

`-d` or `--detach` tells the container to run in detached mode, which (if I understand it correctly) just means that it can run happily in the background and nothing unexpected happens if you close a terminal session (like the whole thing shutting down).  It doesn't require further arguments.

`postgres:latest` is the Image that you are asking Docker to use, it is always the last thing in the command.  You can specify a specific version of postgres if you are working with other software where you are not sure that the latest version of postgres is compatible.

<!-- TODO: all of it -->

Commit message:

minor updates to tech part

learn/informal_learning/phyton-to-postgres/part2-setup.md, after:

## Setting up the environment

Because we are already using Docker containers with Seedcase, it made sense to use that as the starting point for my database.  One reason being, that you create additional problems for yourself if you run both a Postgres database locally and one in Docker, as they seem to compete for the local host domain.  I am aware that this should be solvable by referencing directly to the different set-ups when using for instance pgAdmin, but I haven't been able to figure that bit out (yet).

Everything described below is done on a Mac running Ventura (13.5).

### Docker setup

Installing the Docker Desktop is straight forward, setting up the containers less so.  When starting the desktop app you have a few options on the left side, Containers, Images, and Volumens.  They are all a bit of a mystery, and quite empty to start with.  There is nothing intuitive telling me how to create a container and load it with for instance postgres, and I keep ending up using a bit of code in the terminal to set up a new container, which populates the container section as well as the image section of the Docker Desktop.

The code I modify is the following:

``` bash
docker run --name [Container Name] -p 5422:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=[Password] -d postgres:latest 
```

Breaking down the code can be useful (also for myself a couple of months from now).  First thing to note, is that most of the information you want to convey to the computer is prefixed with `--` followed by a word or part of a word.  There is a good list of those keys on the [Docker website](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/run/).  The most popular ones have gotten a shorthand version with a single `-`, as shown below.  Here are the 'translations' of the options used in the code above:

`docker run` tells the terminal that this is something it needs to do in the docker environment, once Docker is installed these commands will work.

`--name` names the container, you can use any name you want, but it should make sense and there may be protected words you don't want to use.  If you have worked with databases before you probably know which words to stay away from.  In this instance I named it OpenAIdb.

`-p` or `--publish` tells the computer which ports to use when communicating with the database.  The first set of digits (here 5422) is the port your computer will send requests to, and the second set is the one that postgres listens on inside the container.  The second set should always be 5432 when working with postgres.  The reason you specify the port as different on localhost, is so that you can easily run more than one postgres container in Docker.  It is important to note, that there is a `-P` command as well, which publishes all exposed ports to random ports, so stick to the lower p.

`-e` or `--env` is where you set any environment variables.  In this case we set a password for the root user by setting the variable `POSTGRES_PASSWORD`.

`-d` or `--detach` tells the container to run in detached mode, which (if I understand it correctly) just means that it can run happily in the background and nothing unexpected happens if you close a terminal session (like the whole thing shutting down).  It doesn't require further arguments.

`postgres:latest` is the Image that you are asking Docker to use, it is always the last thing in the command.  You can specify a specific version of postgres if you are working with other software where you are not sure that the latest version of postgres is compatible.


## Database setup and connections

There are several ways to connect to a sql database.  Most DBAs will use a database management system, like Microsoft SQL Management Studio, or Azure Data Studio, but it is also possible to communicate via the terminal (using psql), or through a coding environment in python or R. As our system will be relying on access via python, I wanted to ensure that I could access the database using that.  

There are a few steps that I felt would be useful before trying to manipulate the database using python, not just to use as a learning curve, but also to ensure that I have ways of independently checking that what I ask python to do in the database actually gets done.  First off, I set up Azure Data Studio, just to have a visual interface that I'm familiar with.  Then I installed and checked psql and played with that, before setting up Visual Studio Code so that I could start to use psycopg and python.  In the sections below I'll talk about installing the two latter options, the actual use of them will be detailed in the next section.

### Azure Data Studio

The software itself is easy to install.  I picked it up from the official [website](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/products/data-studio), and ran the standard installation on my Mac.  Once up and running the only thing needed is the plug-in for postgres.  There are a few minor tweaks to the connection string, or in this instance the connection wizard, but once you have the right port set it is fairly easy.  

::: callout-info
* Connection type: PostgreSQL
* Server name: localhost
* User name: postgres
* under Advanced: Port: 5422 (set during Docker install)
:::

Once those parameters are set the connection string should be working, allowing you to monitor the database when you get around to trying the following methods.

### psql



### python - psycopg


<!-- TODO: describe how to set up the access control file   -->
