community/contribute/team/events/2022-10-in-person/index.md, before:

---
title: "In-person team meeting"
description: "Details and agenda for the first in-person team meeting."
author: "Luke W. Johnston"
date: "2022-10-26"
categories:
  - in-person
  - meeting
  - brainstorming
  - onboarding
---

## Details

-   2-days at SDCA in Forum (room in calendar invite)

-   **Aims of meeting**:

    -   Get to know each other.
    -   Discuss and decide on how we will work together.
    -   Discuss how we include others outside of team in contributing.
    -   Brainstorm some potential name for the product.

## Schedule

The schedule is meant as a **guide only**. We might spend more time on
some topics and less on others.

### Day 1: Oct 26

| Time  | Item                                                   |
|-------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| 9:30  | Introductions and overview of next few days            |
| 10:00 | [General onboarding for SDCA](#onboarding)             |
| 10:30 | 🍵 Coffee, snacks, and break                           |
| 10:45 | [Onboarding for project](#onboarding)                  |
| 12:15 | 🍴 Lunch                                               |
| 13:00 | Meeting with Annelli                                   |
| 13:30 | [🚶Walking and chatting](#social-activities)           |
| 14:00 | [How to effectively work together?](#working-together) |
| 14:30 | 🍵 Coffee, snacks, and break                           |
| 14:50 | [Continue from previous session](#working-together)    |
| 16:30 | End for day                                            |
| 17:30 | 🍴 Dinner (location in calendar invite)                |

### Day 2: Oct 27

| Time  | Item                                            |
|-------|-------------------------------------------------|
| 9:30  | [Sharing knowledge and skills](#sharing)        |
| 10:30 | 🍵 Coffee, snacks, and break                    |
| 10:45 | [Continue previous session](#sharing)           |
| 12:15 | 🍴 Lunch                                        |
| 13:00 | [🚶 Walking and chatting](#social-activities)   |
| 13:30 | [General project brainstorming](#brainstorming) |
| 14:15 | 🍵 Coffee, snacks, and break                    |
| 14:45 | [Discuss next steps](#next-steps)               |
| 15:30 | End for day                                     |

## Sessions

We can discuss or ask questions anytime throughout the 2 days. They can
be on topic or off topic :smile:

### Onboarding {#onboarding}

For project:

-   Overview of SDCA:
    -   [Main Steno website](https://www.stenoaarhus.dk/research)
    -   [Common Docs](https://steno-aarhus.github.io/research/)
-   Overview of project:
    -   [GitHub
        repository](https://github.com/steno-aarhus/dif-project/)
    -   [Website](https://steno-aarhus.github.io/dif-project/)
-   Expectations:
    -   Autonomy, flexibility in work and hours
    -   Any side projects or other activities, maybe we can incorporate
        or help out
-   Tools critical to project:
    -   Necessary for project: Git, GitHub, git branch-based workflow,
        Quarto, Markdown
    -   Brainstorm later on for other necessary tools for whole team
        (e.g. communication)

### Social activities {#social-activities}

-   Walk around the area
-   Things to chat about:
    -   Things you'd like to learn while in this job/project
    -   How do you work best?
    -   Things learned from previous positions that worked well or could
        be improved on

### Working together {#working-together}

-   CONTRIBUTING
    -   Git branch-based workflow (GitHub)
    -   When do we work synchronously together and how often
-   GOVERNANCE
    -   How does overall decision making and responsibility structure
        look like? To communicate to others outside team how we do
        things. For instance, while I'm in general responsible for
        overall plan and structure of project, others can also be
        involved in decisions since those contributing also have a stake
        in the project.
-   CODE OF CONDUCT
    -   How do we want to work together and behave?
    -   How to resolve conflicts?
-   Tools to communicate with each other or for project management
    -   Which communication channels? (Discord/Slack/Zoom/etc)
    -   What tools to use to manage project? GitHub issues/board?
        Trello?

### Sharing knowledge and skills {#sharing}

-   How to share what we already know and what we learn?
    -   For those inside and outside the team?
    -   As blog posts? So we can eventually combine them into formal
        teaching material or some other documentation later?
    -   Other forms of dissemination?

### Project brainstorming {#brainstorming}

-   Brainstorm potential names for project (other than DIF)
    -   Some ideas in Issue
        [#4](https://github.com/steno-aarhus/dif-project/issues/4#issuecomment-1114582527),
        like GRID?
-   Do we make a new GitHub organization or use steno-aarhus?
-   Delegating/assigning tasks and next steps
    -   Things to do between now and next virtual meeting?

### Next steps {#next-steps}

-   Next (virtual) session: Brainstorming architecture/design, list of
    tasks/milestones and who does what
-   Scheduling next session, when to do it?

## Minutes from meeting

Commit message:

update agenda and schedule for in-person meeting

community/contribute/team/events/2022-10-in-person/index.md, after:

---
title: "In-person team meeting"
description: "Details and agenda for the first in-person team meeting."
author: "Luke W. Johnston"
date: "2022-10-26"
categories:
  - in-person
  - meeting
  - brainstorming
  - onboarding
---

## Details

-   Dinner on Oct 25th (details in invite)

-   2-days at SDCA in Forum (room in calendar invite)

-   **Aims of meeting**:

    -   Get to know each other.
    -   Discuss and decide on how we will work together.
    -   Discuss how we include others outside of team in contributing.
    -   Brainstorm some potential name for the product.

## Schedule

The schedule is meant as a **guide only**. We might spend more time on
some topics and less on others.

### Day 1: Oct 26

| Time  | Item                                                   |
|-------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| 9:30  | Introductions and overview of next few days            |
| 10:00 | [General onboarding for SDCA](#onboarding)             |
| 10:30 | 🍵 Coffee, snacks, and break                           |
| 10:45 | [Onboarding for project](#onboarding)                  |
| 12:15 | 🍴 Lunch                                               |
| 13:00 | [🚶Walking and chatting](#social-activities)           |
| 13:30 | [How to effectively work together?](#working-together) |
| 14:15 | 🍵 Coffee, snacks, and break                           |
| 14:45 | [Continue from previous session](#working-together)    |
| 16:00 | End for day                                            |
| 17:30 | 🍴 Dinner (location in calendar invite)                |

### Day 2: Oct 27

| Time  | Item                                            |
|-------|-------------------------------------------------|
| 9:30  | [Sharing knowledge and skills](#sharing)        |
| 10:30 | 🍵 Coffee, snacks, and break                    |
| 10:45 | [Continue previous session](#sharing)           |
| 12:15 | 🍴 Lunch                                        |
| 13:00 | [🚶 Walking and chatting](#social-activities)   |
| 13:30 | [General project brainstorming](#brainstorming) |
| 14:15 | 🍵 Coffee, snacks, and break                    |
| 14:30 | [Discuss next steps](#next-steps)               |
| 15:00 | End for day                                     |

## Sessions

We can discuss or ask questions anytime throughout the 2 days. They can
be on topic or off topic :smile:

### Onboarding {#onboarding}

For project:

-   Overview of SDCA:
    -   [Main Steno website](https://www.stenoaarhus.dk/research)
    -   [Common Docs](https://steno-aarhus.github.io/research/)
-   Overview of project:
    -   [GitHub
        repository](https://github.com/steno-aarhus/dif-project/)
    -   [Website](https://steno-aarhus.github.io/dif-project/)
-   Expectations:
    -   Autonomy, flexibility in work and hours
    -   Any side projects or other activities, maybe we can incorporate
        or help out
-   Tools critical to project:
    -   Necessary for project: Git, GitHub, git branch-based workflow,
        Quarto, Markdown
    -   Brainstorm later on for other necessary tools for whole team
        (e.g. communication)

### Social activities {#social-activities}

-   Walk around the area
-   Things to chat about:
    -   Things you'd like to learn while in this job/project
    -   How do you work best?
    -   Things learned from previous positions that worked well or could
        be improved on

### Working together {#working-together}

-   CONTRIBUTING
    -   Git branch-based workflow (GitHub)
    -   When do we work synchronously together and how often
-   GOVERNANCE
    -   How does overall decision making and responsibility structure
        look like? To communicate to others outside team how we do
        things. For instance, while I'm in general responsible for
        overall plan and structure of project, others can also be
        involved in decisions since those contributing also have a stake
        in the project.
-   CODE OF CONDUCT
    -   How do we want to work together and behave?
    -   How to resolve conflicts?
-   Tools to communicate with each other or for project management
    -   Which communication channels? (Discord/Slack/Zoom/etc)
    -   What tools to use to manage project? GitHub issues/board?
        Trello?

### Sharing knowledge and skills {#sharing}

-   How to share what we already know and what we learn?
    -   For those inside and outside the team?
    -   As blog posts? So we can eventually combine them into formal
        teaching material or some other documentation later?
    -   Other forms of dissemination?
-   How to involve community (internal to SDCA as well as external)
    -   Needs to be a recurring topic
    -   How to actively and frequently do it? E.g. invite people to
        contribute or come to in-person meetings?
    -   "Stakeholder investigation"

### Project brainstorming {#brainstorming}

-   Brainstorm potential names and logos for project (other than DIF)
    -   Some ideas in Issue
        [#4](https://github.com/steno-aarhus/dif-project/issues/4#issuecomment-1114582527),
        like GRID?
-   Do we make a new GitHub organization or use steno-aarhus?
-   Delegating/assigning tasks and next steps
    -   Things to do between now and next virtual meeting?

### Next steps {#next-steps}

-   Next (virtual) session: Brainstorming architecture/design, list of
    tasks/milestones and who does what
-   Scheduling next session, when to do it?

## Minutes from meeting
